@node Main

@section Introduction to Climaxima

This is the documentation for Climaxima, a CLIM-based frontend to Maxima.

More information about Maxima can be found here:
@url{http://maxima.sourceforge.net/}.

CLIM is the Common Lisp Interface Manager, and this application uses the
McCLIM implementation (@url{https://common-lisp.net/project/mcclim/}).

If you don't have experience with CLIM-based applications, you will
notice that some features are somewhat different from what you might be
used to in other applications. The purpose of this page is to make it
easier to understand how this application works.

As this application is not complete, there are a lot of features
missing. These are the most important ones:

@itemize @bullet
@item
The documentation isn't always rendered correctly. This is because it
doesn't use the native Texinfo implementation, but rather reimplements a
more limited version of Texinfo that is able to render the Maxima
documentation. However, it still misses some features which causes
incorrect rendering in some places.

@item
There needs to be a way to save a session and load it back later.

@item
Using multiple commands on a single line doesn't work. For example, the
command @code{a:10;b:20} will ignore the assignment to @code{b}.
@end itemize

@subsection Input

Input editing uses Emacs keybindings. Here is a summary of the most
important keys:

@itemize
@item @key{Meta-p} previous command in history

@item @key{Meta-n} next command in history

@item @key{Shift-RET} insert a newline into the current command

@item @key{Meta-s} insert a special symbol. @emph{(it is a known problem
that this does not work when the input is empty, i.e. as the first
character typed)}

@item @key{TAB} complete the currently typed word
@end itemize

Text can be copied using the regular Emacs keys (@key{Control-w},
@key{Control-y}, etc) or by right-clicking on an expression and
selecting @b{Copy expression as text} (copy the Maxima commands) or
@b{Copy expression as LaTeX} (copy a LaTeX version of the selection).

@subsection Commands

CLIM applications are command-driven, with most clickable objects on the
screen translating into commands. Since the main Maxima interface is
command-based too, the : character is used as a prefix to specify CLIM
commands. The Regular Maxima interface also uses : as a prefix character
for its internal commands, but its commands are mostly different
(although in cases where functionality overlap, the same command name
will be used).

Some important commands are:

@itemize
@item @code{:Lisp} Evaluate a Lisp expression
@item @code{:Info} Open the documentation for a Maxima symbol
@end itemize
